Bali Island --- bali --- The famed Island of the Gods, with its varied landscape of hills and mountains, rugged coastlines and sandy beaches, lush rice terraces and barren volcanic hillsides all providing a picturesque backdrop to its colourful, deeply spiritual and unique culture, stakes a serious claim to be paradise on earth. With world-class surfing and diving, a large number of cultural, historical and archaeological attractions, and an enormous range of accommodations, this is one of the world's most popular island destinations and one which consistently wins travel awards. Bali has something to offer a very broad market of visitors from young back-packers right through to the super-rich. There are are thousands of gift shops in Bali. From Denpasar to Ubud, you'll find many things you'd like to bring back home. Most of the starred hotels are located near the beach. Otherwise, they usually have their own private spots at certain beaches. You can find them easily at popular spots like Kuta or Sanur. If you are thinking of bringing home souvenirs, your best bet is the souvenir market at Sukowati, where you may be overwhelmed by choice. Bali’s white beaches are favourite for family holidays. There are a variety of watersports available, such as banana boats, parasailing or jet skiing, swimming or plain sunbathing. Most well known among Bali’s beaches is Kuta. Along this stretch are an array of hotels, restaurants, shops and cafes. In the evenings the area throbs to the beat of disco music. For a quieter evening enjoy the beach at Jimbaran, a popular spot to eat fresh barbecued seafood in the evenings. Sanur Beach also dotted with hotels and restaurants. You can also visit Nusa Dua, where more private beaches front super deluxe hotels.
Banyuwangi --- banyuwangi --- Banyuwangi literally means Aromatic Water, which is associated with the local legend. Being the east-most city on Java, this is where the dawn first rises in the morning throwing its welcoming rays over Java, this lush green but also most densely populated island. The town of Banyuwangi is the gateway to your explorations to watch wild animals roam freely in the reserve of Alas Purwo, the oldest game reserve on Java, go trekking through the savannah of Baluran, or find secluded and untouched beaches at Pulau Merah or G-Land, and travel to Sukamade Beach where turtles come to hatch their eggs. Mountain climbers can hike up from Banyuwangi to the stunning Ijen Crater and be amazed by blue flames that spring out among the yellow sulphurous rocks, cut and gathered manually by traditional miners.
Bintan Island --- bintan --- Situated just a ferry ride away from Singapore or Johor Bahru in Malaysia, as well as its neighboring Batam Island, Bintan is the largest island in the Riau Islands province and one that offers the perfect getaway with its high-end resorts, world-class golf courses, and refreshing coastal atmosphere. Tanjung Pinang at the south western coast of the island is the capital city of the Riau Islands Province. Aside from the center of activities of the local population, Tanjung Pinang also feature a number of historical heritage sites. This include Senggarang, the unique village on stilts and a large Buddhist temple near the airport known as the Maritria temple or Vihara Avalokitesvara. Just off the coast of the city, Penyengat Island was once the seat of the Johor-Riau kingdom and in the 19thcentury became the cultural capital of the Malay world. The restored Sultan’s palace here is an interesting blend of Javanese and Dutch architecture. Here one can also find the royal family’s’ tombs, fort, and the grand mosque of Mesjid Raya Sultan Riau Penyengat. Bintan’s chief tourist attraction today, however, is Bintan Resorts, a spectacular beach holiday destination in the north of the island, covering 23,000 hectares along the entire sandy white coast facing the South China Sea. Bintan has now become a world class Sport-Tourism destination attracting thousands around the world to compete in its marathons, triathlons, extreme sports and golf challenges. There are currently ten independently beach resorts, four designer golf courses, as well as a range of recreational facilities and attractions located within the fully integrated Bintan Resorts. Located south west of the extensive Bintan Resorts tourism area, just at its very border, are pristine mangrove forests bisected by the meandering, clear river of Sungei Sebung. Visitors can take a boat ride almost right to the source of the river, and experience a thrilling trip into the world of tropical mangroves: watch monkeys, kingfishers, otters, tree snakes and even thousands of fireflies create glowing lights at night, sparkling up the bushes like Christmas trees. At the same time visitors assist in preserving this precious pristine environment from destruction.
Bromo Tengger Semeru National Park --- bromo --- The Bromo Tengger Semeru National Park covers a massive area of 800 square km in the center of East Java. For anyone with an interest in volcanoes, a visit to the park is a must. This is the largest volcanic region in the province. Visit the park and see the plumes of smoke coming from Mt Semeru, an active volcano which rises 3,676 meters above sea level. Experience the remarkable Tengger Caldera, Java's largest, with its 10 km barren desert-like sea of sand. Within the caldera rise the deeply fissured volcanic cones of Batok and Bromo, the latter is still active with a cavernous crater from which smoke blows skyward. Temperatures at the top of Mt Bromo range about 5-18 degrees Celsius. To the south of the park is a rolling upland plateau dissected by valleys and dotted with several small scenic lakes, extending to the foot of Mt Semeru.
Jakarta --- jakarta --- Capital of the Republic of Indonesia, Jakarta is a huge, sprawling metropolis, home to 9 million people. During the day the number increases with another 2 million as commuters making their way to work in the city, and flock out again in the evenings. Located on the northern coast of Java, the province of Jakarta has rapidly expanded through the years, absorbing many villages in the process. In fact, Jakarta is a conglomeration of villages known as kampung, now crossed by main roads and super highways. It is small wonder therefore, that you may drive down one wide avenue one minute then suddenly find yourself squeezed into a small street together with scores of cars and motorbikes. Together with its many suburbs Jakarta has become a megapolitan city. Therefore, when you visit Jakarta it is best to invest in a good map, or rely on GPS. As capital city of a Indonesia, Jakarta is not only the seat of the national government and the provincial government, this city is also Indonesia’s political center. Moreover, Jakarta is also the center and hub of Indonesia’s national finance and trade. It is no wonder, therefore that you will find Jakarta an ever dynamic city, a city that never sleeps.
Labuan Bajo --- labuan_bajo --- On the westernmost tip of the Island of Flores, the town of Labuan Bajo, or also spelled Labuhan Bajo, sits peacefully a small fishing site with surprisingly comprehensive tourist facilities. The central logic for its wide range of amenities is the extraordinary interest of travelers to the existence of the Komodo dragon, locally called ora, if not for its superb national park that encompasses some 80 islands. To most travelers and to westerners who own many businesses here, the developing town is somehow favorable and even romantic. The view on wooden cottages with thatched roofs camouflaged by shrubberies and towering trees up in the sloping township, overlooking an idyllic harbour, make an evening conversation with traveling partners an unforgettable experience. For some adventurers, Labuan Bajo can be an ideal getaway.
Lombok Island --- lombok --- With divine beaches, the majestic Mt Rinjani and spectacular marine life to discover, the island of Lombok in West Nusa Tenggara has no shortage of attractions both in and out of the water. It’s little wonder then that Lombok is the most popular destination in West Nusa Tenggara. Challenge yourself with a trek up steep volcanic peaks. Hire a bike and cycle through lush evergreen rice paddies. Whichever way you choose to spend your time you won’t be disappointed with the spectacular natural beauty on offer here. Sharing the same name to notorious Bali’s Kuta Beach, the Lombok’s Kuta Beach offers a different vibe with no less attractions. Explore more phenomenal beaches down its south coast like the famous Tangsi ‘Pink’ Beach in further south east, with pretty corals making the shore looked blushed. Find the amazing Senaru Waterfalls and Benang Kelambu Waterfalls for a soothing sight. And don’t miss out to join Grupuk surf camp and brush up your wave riding skills in the splendid Selong Belanak Beach. Join the locals of Sasak tribe and experience their daily life in the weaving village of Sade and Rambitan. You may learn a thing or two from the wonderful women with meticulous weaving skills that produces fine quality textiles.
Makassar --- makassar --- Makassar is the largest city in east Indonesia and the capital city of South Sulawesi province. Makassar enjoys a central location in the Indonesian archipelago and is the Indonesia’s busy air hub, connecting Sumatra, Java, Bali and Kalimantan in the west with Sulawesi, the Moluccas and Papua in the east. Ever since the 14th century and located on the busy trading route along the deep Straits of Makassar, the city of Makassar is a bustling cosmopolitan town with settlement of many races and ethnic groups, of Chinese, Europeans, Javanese, Balinese, Ambon and others. Makassar is the Gateway to East Indonesia, as well as the entry point to an adventurous tour to the Tana Toraja highlands, where awesome mountain scenery and the unique rituals of the Toraja people await. The island of Makassar are also known to have some of the best spots for diving. Just a mere 50 km from the city, Bantimurung Bulusaraung National Park awaits with its stunning waterfall and hordes of enchanting butterflies, or visit Bulukumba's fascinating traditional ship building dockyards and pristine beach at Bira. Freshly caught seafood served in a variety of ways, Chinese or local, is the highlight of any visit to Makassar.
Raja Ampat --- raja_ampat --- Far from the view-blocking skyscrapers, dense and hectic concrete jungles, congested traffics, flickering electric billboards, endless annoying noises, and all the nuisances of modern cities, you will find a pristine paradise where Mother Nature and warm friendly people welcome you with all the exceptional wonders in Raja Ampat, the islands-regency in West Papua Province. With all the spectacular wonders above and beyond its waters, as well as on land and amidst the thick jungles, this is truly the place where words such as beautiful, enchanting, magnificent, and fascinating gets its true physical meaning. Situated off the northwest tip of Bird’s Head Peninsula on Papua, the most eastern Island of the Indonesian Archipelago, Raja Ampat or literally meaning ‘The Four Kings’ is an archipelago  comprising over 1,500 small islands, cays, and shoals surrounding the four main islands of Waigeo, Batanta, Salawati, and Misool. The name Raja Ampat itself is believed to derived from a legend where a woman found seven eggs, with four of them hatch and become the kings of the four main islands, while the other three  became a woman, a ghost, and a stone. For underwater enthusiasts, Raja Ampat definitely offers the some of the world’s ultimate experience. The territory within the islands of the Four Kings is enormous, covering 9.8 million acres of land and sea, home to 540 types of corals, more than 1,000 types of coral fish and 700 types of mollusks. This makes it the most diverse living library for world's coral reef and underwater biota.
Ujung Kulon National Park --- ujung_kulon --- Situated about 300 km from the capital city of Jakarta, or about 140 km from Serang, the capital city of Banten Province, Ujung Kulon National Park encompasses a total area of 122,955 hectares consisting of 78,619 hectares land area and 44,337 hectares of seas. The national park stretches across the Ujung Kulon Peninsula, Panaitan Island, Peucang Island, Handeleum islands, and Honje Mountain Range. Administratively, Ujung Kulon National Park is located within the Sumur and Cimanggu districts, in the Pandeglang Regency, in the province of Banten. The Javan Rhinos are known as the largest animals on Java and the second largest animals in Indonesia after the Asian Elephant. This extraordinary creature is extremely rare and barely makes its appearance noticeable. Some of the locals even regard the Javan rhino as more than a mere animal but almost like a near sacred ancient creature. Aside from the Javan Rhino, Ujung Kulon National Park is also home to many other special wildlife.
Yogyakarta --- yogyakarta --- Yogyakarta, together with its twin city Surakarta (Solo), is the cradle of civilization on Java. This city was the seat of power that produced the magnificent temples of Borobudur and Prambanan in the 8th and 9th century and the new powerful Mataram kingdom of the 16th and 17th century. Yogyakarta is known as Neverending Asia for its endless appeals. This city is one of the foremost cultural centres of Indonesia. From climbing the magnificent Borobudur temple, visiting the Keraton (Sultan’s Palace) and the famous Alun Alun, to watching silversmiths produce amazing jewelries at Kotagede and also learn to make one yourself. Maybe try a splurge shopping up at Malioboro road, relaxing Javanese Spa and many more ways to never get bored in this relatively small yet bustling city. From natural wonders, local art and traditions, examples of Javanese heritage to delicious culinary delights. Try theGudeg, a special cooking of traditional Javanese recipe. Taste the Bakpia, a traditional snack with many enticing flavours. Yogyakarta is indeed a city with numerous attractions to enjoy. All of this and many more to explore has  bring Yogyakarta as the second most visited destination in Indonesia after Bali.