banyuwangi_telemung --- Telemung Coffee Plantation --- Telemung's main product is coffee, with 330 hectare of plantations run by local farmers. Telemung's number one favourite product is the Luwak Coffee produced from Wild Civet's excretions. A cat-like mammal also named Paradoxurus hermaphroditus, it feeds only on the best ripe coffee cherries for its daily snacks. They pick, swallow and digest the sweet-fruity outer skin along with the fleshy pulp, leaving a fermented coffee beans in their excretion. The selective and digestive process taken by the beans produces exceptional and flavorful coffee. It should be noted that the best Luwak Coffee are beans that come from the wild civet and not from the farmed ones, because the wild civet is an omnivore that ideally feeds on plentiful food. The diversity of the foods the animal eats is the factor that enhances the taste of the processed excretion.
banyuwangi_ijen --- Kawah Ijen (Ijen Plateau) --- Ijen Plateau, known as “Kawah Ijen“, is a volcano complex located in East Java and is regarded as one of the unmissable sights in Indonesia. Ijen is a quiet but active volcano, set amidst a stunning landscape of volcanic cones and a beautiful turquoise coloured sulfur lake. Tourists flock to Ijen for what’s know as the “Blue Fire”, an electric-blue flame that appears from the combustion of sulfuric gases. The gases emerge from cracks in the volcano at high pressure and temperature of up to 1,112°F (600°C), igniting when they come in contact with air. The blue flames can reach up to 16 feet (5 meters) high.
banyuwangi_pulau_merah --- Pulau Merah Beach --- Banyuwangi, located at the most-eastern edge of Java can boast yet another world class surf spot next to the already well known G-land at Plengkung: this is Pulau Merah Beach. Pulau Merah Beach is so called since just some 100 meters to the side of the beach is a picturesque little hilly island called Pulau Merah, that is reachable on foot. This is situation is similar to the location of the island of Tanah Lot to the main island of Bali. Unlike at G-land where are found sharp coral rocks by the beach, the beach at Pulau Merah-or the Red Island Beach-is open sand so that it is also safe for beginner surfers. Compared to Bali’s Kuta Beach, surf here is stronger, offering large 4 meters high barrels with a length of 400 meters, ideal for surfers to try out tubing techniques. But since surf here comes in at an average of two meters height, beginners and amateur surfers alike can enjoy this beach. Whereas, the beaches at Plengkung and G-land should be ventured by professionals only. Pulau Merah beach was originally known as Ringin Pitu. There are two versions for its name change. One version has it that because the color of the soil and sand are reddish, this is where it got its name from, while another story says that at one time some bright red rays shone from the small hilly Pulau Merah island onto the beach, thus giving it the name Pulau Merah beach. Another feature of the beach is the nearby fishing village called Pancer, where you can stay at villagers’ homes. Their hospitality to visitors in spite of their simple life is truly heartwarming.