bintan_sebung --- Sebung River Mangrove Forest --- Located south west of the extensive Bintan Resorts tourism area, just at its very border, are pristine mangrove forests bisected by the meandering, clear river of Sungei Sebung. This 6.8 km long river has its source in the hillside lakes whose waters are collected from the rains and not from the ground as spring water. The mangrove forests that once used to be cut down by the locals to obtain wood for charcoal and building materials have now been left alone to return to their original state ever since tourism now promises a better future through the preservation of the forests and river: precisely the natural environment that tourists seek and love. And so today, visitors can take a boat ride almost right to the source of the river, and experience a thrilling trip into the world of tropical mangroves: watch monkeys, kingfishers, otters, tree snakes and even thousands of fireflies create glowing lights at night, sparkling up the bushes like Christmas trees. At the same time visitors assist in preserving this precious pristine environment from destruction.
bintan_ria_golf --- Ria Bintan Golf Course --- A gem of a resort in the north of Bintan island, set amidst pristine white beaches, clear emerald waters and lush tropical forests is the Ria Bintan Resort. Aptly named Ria Bintan (ria means celebration), this golf and beach resort facing the South China Sea has become the toast of holiday-makers. Covering a total area of 447 hectares, Ria Bintan is developed in stages, comprising the Club Med Ria Bintan, two 18-hole championship golf courses, a clubhouse, complete recreation facilities, and 1,500 resort rooms in villas and chalets which open to magnificent sea views. The combined 36-hole championship golf course designed by Gary Player, comprises an 18-hole Ocean Course and an 18-hole Forest Course. With these assets, Ria Bintan Golf has made it to the official ranking of the world’s Top 100 Golf Courses published by Golf Digest Magazine. The Ocean Course has smooth fairways and beautiful sea views om the South China Seas. Featuring forested areas, large elevation changes in such a natural environment is really unique, writes Gary Player. Club Med Ria Bintan's a beachfront resort with 302 rooms which was opened at the end of 1997, continues to attract international visitors. The first 500 waterfront resort homes have been planned on a 22-ha site adjacent to the Club Med Resort. Guest Service and Facilities, Restaurant, Spa, Changing Room, dan Driving Range.
bintan_nirwana --- Nirwana Gardens --- Covering a sprawling 300 hectares and more, fringed by a swathe of white sand beaches brushed by the South China Sea, the Nirwana Gardens in the north-west coast of the island of Bintan appears to have it altogether for the perfect holiday or the most romantic honeymoon. This all-inclusive and self-contained upmarket Resort offers beach activities, fun, natural forests, rest and recreation for the whole family. Nirwana Gardens is also where the annual Tour de Bintan has its Headquarters, where participants race across tracks within and from these extensive premises.
bintan_anambas --- Anambas Island --- Named Asia's Best Tropical Island by CNN.com in 2013 the Anambas islands are indeed a tropical paradise. Located in the South China Sea, the Anambas are among Indonesia's northern-most border archipelagos. Facing the wide open ocean, the Anambas provide a panoramic view of blue seas and green islands dotted with azure lagoons. Here are excellent dive spots where divers will be amazed at the colorful underwater life, while on land rows of coconut trees protect the soft white sand beaches, where turtles have made the shores of the islands of Keramut and Mangkal their habitat. Admire the many lagoons here, especially on the islands of Pantai Selat Rangsang, Pulau Bawah, Pulau Rongkat and Pantai Pulau Penjalin, where islands emerge from the sea as out of nowhere. At low tide the islets grow together by the connecting sands, creating an inland sea and an outer sea beyond, with lagoons that are paved with white sand and here and there colorful corals. All of the islands in the Anambas have fine white beaches which glisten and become even more beautiful as the lagoons fill with aquamarine water through which one can see strange corals and schools of fish darting in the clear water.
bintan_sanchaya --- The Luxurious Sanchaya Resort --- Opened early 2015, set along the pristine sands of Lagoi Bay on the northern shore of the enchanting Bintan Island, in the Riau Islands Province, the luxurious Sanchaya Resort fronts an ivory-colored beach with stunning views of the South China Sea. With twenty one private villas and nine suites, all the rooms are filled with hand-picked treasures and fascinating artifacts that reflect the varied cultures of South-east Asia. With all-day dining, a wonderful spa and a large central pool, this is without doubt, one of Bintan’s most captivating places to stay. Representing the finest in Bintan Island accommodation, all 30 rooms are a careful blend of colonial elegance and Asian exoticism. Affording great views either of the sea or on lush tropical gardens, each has either private verandas or balconies, allowing guests to enjoy outdoor privacy during their stay. Equipped with super-king-size beds and walk-in closets, the rooms also have modern amenities such as iPads, high-fidelity Bang & Olufsen televisions and sound systems, cable and Apple TV, and WiFi, all tastefully designed in harmony with each room’s interior style, so as not to compromise the ambience.
bintan_trikora --- Trikora Beach --- Located east of Bintan Island in the Riau Archipelago, is a long stretch of white beach, scattered with picturesque huge boulders, called Trikora Beach. This is the popular seaside playground for locals but also for those coming from Singapore and Malaysia. From here, not far out to sea you will see rows of "kelongs" or fish traps, houses on boats, under which fishermen hang out their nets to catch small fry, or ikan bilis, for which Bintan is so well known. But from the beach are now also built boardwalks with kelongs attached on either side, which are rented out to tourists. These are usually filled with avid anglers from Singapore and Malaysia to set out to sea at night or before the crack of dawn in order to catch the larger fish.