jakarta_cathedral --- Jakarta’s Neo Gothic Catholic Cathedral --- Jakarta’s neo-gothic Roman Catholic Cathedral stands on the north corner of Lapangan Banteng, or Banteng Square, which, during the Dutch colonial period was called Waterlooplein, or Waterloo Square in Central Jakarta.  Today, the Cathedral stands right across Jakarta’s largest mosque, the Istiqlal Mosque. Their proximity is not a coincidence. Indonesia’s first president, Soekarno, chose the site for the mosque on purpose, to symbolize the nation’s philosophy of unity in diversity, where all religions could co-exist in peace and harmony. Today, both establishments continue to cooperate with one another, especially to accommodate the parking of cars during religious festivals. The parking lot of the mosque is used by the church congregation during Easter and Christmas midnight mass, and vice versa, during Eid prayers, parking is extended to the Cathedral’s parking lot. Facing the church’s parking area is the statue of the Holy Heart of Jesus. This neo-gothic church was consecrated in 1901 having been rebuilt at the same location where previously stood the old cathedral, which was built in 1829 but collapsed in 1890. As the Dutch were Protestants and prevented the spread of the Catholic faith in the East Indies, the church was left in ruins. It was not until Napoleon Bonaparte conquered Europe, and placed his brother Lodewijk (Louis Napoleon) on the Dutch throne that Catholicism was again allowed to be spread in the archipelago.
jakarta_national_museum --- The National Museum --- Located on Medan Merdeka Barat, the National Museum is the pride of Jakarta, providing visitors an insight into Indonesia’s long history in cultural heritage from prehistoric days up to today. Having recently been expanded, the museum houses an impressive collection of no less than 109,342 objects covering Indonesia’s Prehistory, Archaeology, Ethnography, Numismatics-Heraldic, Geography and Historical Relics. Here are statues and stone inscriptions discovered on sites throughout the archipelago starting from the first century AD, a complete collection of batik cloths and woven textiles produced through the years in the different islands. While on the top floor one finds displayed the collection of gold and silver ornaments and jewelry once owned by the rajahs and sultans of the archipelago. Officially opened in 1868 the Museum came popularly to be known as Gedung Gajah (The House of Elephant) or Gedung Arca (The House of Statues). It was named Gedung Gajah after the bronze elephant statue in the front yard, which was a donation from King Chulalongkorn of Thailand in 1871. It was also known as Gedung Arca on account of the large variety of statues from different periods on display here. In 1979 the Museum was officially named the Museum Nasional or the National Museum. The Museum is not only a centre for research and study into the national and cultural heritage, but it also functions as an educative, cultural and recreational information centre.
jakarta_istana_merdeka --- Merdeka Palace and State Palace --- It was on the 17th August 1945 at 10 AM, the Proclamation text was read by Indonesia’s first president Soekarno to an exuberant and captivated crowd. Four years later, it was in this very building that Indonesia was finally recognized as an Independent State from the Netherlands, after an agreement was signed between Sultan Hamengku Buwono IX for Indonesia and a representative for the Dutch Crown. To commemorate this monumental time in Indonesian history, the Merdeka palace celebrates Indonesia’s Independence Day every year on the 17th of August. A prestigious flag raising ceremony is held on the building's front steps and is strictly attended by state and foreign dignitaries. Today, the Merdeka palace is used for official state events as well as a place of residence for the President of Indonesia. Situated in the same complex as the Merdeka Palace and surrounded by charming gardens reminiscent of those in Europe, is the Istana Negara (State Palace). This building was the original palace, erected in 1796 during the reign of Governor-General Pieter Gerardus von Overstraten. At the time, the palace functioned as an administrative and residential compound for Dutch Governor-Generals.  At present day, the palace is mainly used for state banquets. Typical of colonial Dutch architecture, both palaces have front porticos supported by beautifully crafted Corinthian and Doric pillars. Inside the establishments, there are elegant sitting rooms, reception halls and impressively curated Indonesian artworks representative of the plight for freedom fought by the Indonesian people.
jakarta_ancol --- Ancol Recreation Park --- This is Jakarta's largest and most popular recreation park, more popularly known as "Ancol Dreamland". The Ancol Dreamland has an extensive range of attractions that include a giant oceanarium Seaworld, a water park with artificial waves, a lagoon for fishing and boating, convention hall and hotels. The theme park, Dunia Fantasi (Fantasy World), with exciting rides such as the Tornado and Hysteria. The 'Pasar Seni' is an art center which has various collection of Indonesian handicraft, paintings and souvenirs on sale. At this art and handicraft market, visitors get to watch Indonesian artists creating their masterpieces. Hundreds of artists from all over the country congregate here to exhibit their work, making this a fascinating place for tourists and art connoisseurs. You can even get a portrait of yourself done. Both traditional and modern art and crafts are on display, including paintings, sculptures, traditional Indonesian wayang kulit (leather puppets), gemstone jewelry and many other artistic products. At Pantai Carnaval you will find of restaurants serving local and international dishes with several serving seafood as their specialty. For beverage, its worth to try "Es Kelapa Muda" or Young Coconut Ice drink. Within Ancol Jakarta BayCity area, you will find several hotels such as Raddin Hotel, Wisata Hotel, Mercure Hotel and Putri Duyung Cottages with various prices and facilities. Marina Ancol is a special port for yachts, motor and sail boats, and the port of departure to Kepulauan Seribu or Thousand Islands resorts. This is also a good location for windsurfing and other marine recreation. Beach facilities for the sea or lagoon area are amply provided: water cycles, canoes, sail boats, fishing gear and many others. Stalls are abundant, serving drinks and snacks along the beach.
jakarta_mall --- Variety of Shopping Malls --- Whether you're a serious spender or half-hearted shopper, there's sure to be something for everyone in Jakarta, the country’s shopping capital. The wide variety of things that you can buy in Jakarta is mind boggling from the best of local handicrafts to haute couture labels. To Jakartans, shopping and spending the whole day in malls is entertainment. Malls are places to hang out and spend happy weekends with family and friends. For, Jakarta malls offer everything from large department stores, luxury boutiques, supermarket, gym, upmarket restaurants, food centers, cafes, bookshops, kids playground, beauty salons, to cinemas, all under one roof and in total air-conditioned comfort. Some have become household names, and are known by their initials, like PIM (Pondok Indah Mall), CITOS (Cilandak Town Square), GANCIT (Gandaria City), SENCY (Senayan City) and more. If you are looking for international top designer boutiques, head to Jalan Thamrin-Sudirman, where are Grand Indonesia, Plaza Indonesia,and FX, Further South are Senayan Plaza and Senayan City and in the Kebayoran area are malls catering to the upmarket clientele, such as Gandaria City, Dharmawangsa Square, Pasaraya Grande, Pondok Indah Mall and Kemang. Then there is Pacific Place at Kuningan, another favourite haunt. But each of Jakarta’s many districts has one or more, so that finding things to buy and eat are all within easy reach. But if you are looking for something in particular to buy, then here are some tips.
jakarta_old_batavia --- Old Batavia, the Jewel of Asia --- In its heydays in the 16th century, Batavia was known as “The Queen of the East”and “the Jewel of Asia”. Its Sunda Kelapa harbour was abuzz with merchant vessels from Europe, China, India and from throughout the Indonesian archipelago, loading in and sailing away with precious nutmegs, pepper, tea, coffee, ceramics, cloths and other exotic products of the time. The warehouses were stacked with spices, tin and copper. The successful trade in Batavia filled the coffers of the Netherland’s Treasury. Center of the VOC Dutch East India Company’s administration was the Stadthuis with its wide front plaza, around which were the Court of Justice, banks and other important buildings. Later the city expanded to the west bank of the Ciliwung river, where the Dutch built a fortress, a city wall and canals, outside which was Chinatown and the homes of the indigenous people. This entire area, covering 1.3 square kilometers is today called the Old Batavia, present day part of North and West Jakarta. Before this, in 1526, Prince Fatahillah of Banten invaded the harbour of Sunda Kelapa of the West Javanese kingdom of Pajajaran, On 22 June 1527 he renamed the town Jayakarta meaning victorious city.  Until today, Jakarta bases its founding on this date. In 1619, however, Dutch Governor Jan Pieterszoon Coen destroyed the town, upon which he built the new town of Batavia – naming it to the ancestors of the Dutch, the Batavieren. Today many of the original buildings are still intact, The government has designated the Old Batavia as conservation area and plans are afoot to revive the entire neighbourhood into a tourst destination. Today, the Sunda Kelapa Harbour is an inter-island harbour, where one can mostly find Bugis phinisi schooners at anchor. Nearly are the old warehouses, which are now converted into a Maritime Museum.
jakarta_tmii --- Taman Mini Indonesia Indah (TMII) --- Popularly known as Taman Mini, it is located in East Jakarta, and consist of 26 exclusive replicas of traditional houses of chieftains found throughout the Indonesian archipelago from Aceh to Kalimantan, Sulawesi, Java and Papua. These are pavilions displaying the history, arts and crafts and traditions of each of the provinces. Built for education and family fun, Taman Miini has large areas for family recreation, a number of flora and fauna parks, various museums, performing theatres, an Imax theatre and accommodation facilities. Here visitors can at a glance view the exceptional breadth and full range of regional architecture in the Indonesian archipelago, where pavilion presents at least three typical examples of each regional style. The "Teater Tanah Airku" is the first theatre in Indonesia equipped with state-of-the art technology. The"Teater Tanah Airku" is a blend between the typical Indonesian and international aesthetics. There are also museums dedicated to rare animals in the Komodo museum, the Asmat museum, a Sports museum, and a museum displaying gifts received by President Soeharto during his thirty years leadership. For nature lovers, there are the orchid gardens, cacti, herbs, and flower gardens, and there is also a Birds Park. Taman Mini is the brainchild of the late Ibu Tien Soeharto, former Indonesian First Lady. Construction of Taman Mini began in 1971 and it was officially inaugurated on April 20, 1975. The Park has as chief mission the preservation and development of the various Indonesian cultures as a media to strengthen the nation’s unity and integrity and to in still these values especially in the young generation. To further express Indonesia’s tolerance and peaceful coexistence among the different religions in the archipelago here stand in a row the different houses of worship that are still actively used. Taman Mini is a good introduction to what Indonesia has to offer in diversity and culture. During weekends and holidays Taman Mini is an ideal theme park for families to become more acquainted with other regional cultures.
jakarta_monas --- Monas (The National Monument) --- The main Sudirman-Thamrin avenues in Jakarta lead to the Merdeka Square, where in its center stands the National Monument (also known as Monas or Monumen Nasional) which houses the first red-and-white flag flown at the Proclamation of Independence on 17 August 1945. This flag has now become threadbare, and so nowadays on Independence Day ceremonies, the original flag is taken out but only to accompany the replica flag to be flown in front of the Merdeka Palace. The 137 meter tall National Monument is obelisk shaped, and is topped with a 14.5 meter bronze flame coated with 32 kilograms gold leaf. Within the pedestal is a museum depicting in diorama Indonesia’s fight for Independence as well as the original text of the Proclamation of Independence. A lift takes visitors up to the look-out platform at the base of the flame for a grand view of Jakarta. Surrounding the Monument is now a park with a musical fountain, enjoyed by the Jakarta public on Sundays for sports and recreation. Deer roam among the shady trees in the park. Merdeka Square is the center of most important government buildings. During Dutch colonial days here was the center of government, known as Koningsplein or the King’s Square. The north side is dominated by the Merdeka Palace once the home of the Dutch Governor Generals, which now also houses the office of the President and the Cabinet. To the South is the office of Indonesia’s Vice President, Jakarta’s Governor and provincial parliament building, as also the American Embassy, while to the West is the National Museum, the Constitutional Court, the Ministry for Culture and Tourism and the Indosat building, Indonesia’s first international telecommunications company.
jakarta_istiqlal_mosque --- The Grand Istiqlal Mosque --- First opened to the public by Indonesia’s first President, Soekarno, on 22 February 1978, the grand Istiqlal Mosque of Jakarta is the largest mosque in South East Asia both in structure and capacity, as it can accommodate congregations of up to 120,000 people. Located at Jalan Taman Wijaya Kusuma in Central Jakarta, on the north eastern corner of the Merdeka Square, the Istiqlal Mosque stands out with its 45m diameter dome and tall minarets. Standing almost right across the old Catholic Church at the corner of Jalan Lapangan Banteng, the Istiqlal mosque was designed in 1954 by Frederich Silaban, a Christian architect from North Sumatra. The idea for the need of a national mosque was inspired by Muslim leader KH Wahid Hashim and executed by Cokro Aminoto, then minister for religious affairs. Istiqlal meaning ‘Independence’,  is  a reminder of Indonesia’s struggle for national Independence. Its 17 years construction was personally supervised by President Soekarno. The mosque has a large rectangular prayer hall with a 45 meter diameter dome supported by 12 round columns, and has 4 levels of balconies. Its interior is mostly simple.
jakarta_glodok --- Glodok (Chinatown) --- Throughout history, Chinatown has always been dubbed as a hub of activity, a pillar of the economy, and a key element in each city. Situated in the district of Taman Sari in West Jakarta, in the capital city of Indonesia, Glodok is touted as the largest Chinatown region in the country and one of the largest in the world. This section of The Old Batavia City is home to many people of Chinese descent and has been known as Chinatown or Pecinan since the Dutch Colonial Era. In modern times, Glodok is best known as the electronic trading center of Jakarta. Strolling through the streets, visitors to the area can revel in the rich history encased in this city within a city. Follow a trail of historical buildings, ancient temples and traditional Chinese architecture.Learn, observe, and go shopping along the way. The name Glodok comes from the Sundanese word "Golodog,” which means‘ the entrance to a house,’ as Sunda Kelapa (now Jakarta,) was once the gateway to the ancient Sunda Kingdom. During Colonial times, commercial opportunities created by the Dutch attracted thousands of people from areas of what is now Indonesia, who flocked towards the city. This also included an enormous influx of immigrants from China who were contracted as skilled artisans, sugar mill workers and shopkeepers. With the number of Chinese rising rapidly, the Dutch colonial government and locals began to feel threatened by their number. When in 1720, global sugar prices were reduced by 50% due to increased competition and export from the West Indies, Dutch lords then set a standard price for sugar which caused unrest amongst Chinese sugar merchants. On October 7, 1740, hundreds of ethnic Chinese, mainly from the sugar trade, rose up against the Dutch, killing 50 soldiers. On October 9, 1740, the tragedy now known as Geger Pacinan struck. Rumors of a further uprising caused Dutch soldiers to open fire on Chinese homes where nearly 10,000 ethnic Chinese were massacred. The following year, the remaining Chinese were settled outside Batavia’s city walls, in the area now known as Glodok.