labuan_bajo_komodo --- Komodo National Park --- Located in East Nusa Tenggara, Komodo National park is the home of the unique and rare Komodo Dragon (Varanus komodoensis). Because of the unique and rare nature of this animal, KNP was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1986. The park includes three major islands, Komodo, Rinca and Padar, and numerous smaller islands together totaling 603 square km of land. At least 2,500 komodos live in this area. These large dragons are usually three meters long and weigh up to 90 kg. Their habitat has beautiful panoramic views of savannas, rain forests, white beaches, beautiful corals, and clean blue seas. In this area, you can also find horses, wild buffalo, deer, wild boar, snakes, monkeys, and various types of birds. On Rinca Island, you can see komodos lying down outside the homes of national park rangers, or "parking" near the officials' homes. If you don't see a dragon, Rinca and Komodo have beautiful sceneries with white beaches, mangroves, savannas and blue waters. During the dry season, these savannas and hills have dried grasses. This place has a rich and amazing underwater sea biotica. Divers claim that Komodo waters are one of the best diving sites in the world. It has fascinating underwater scenery. You can find 385 species of beautiful corals, mangrove forests, and seaweeds as a home for thousands of fish species, 70 types of sponges, 10 types of dolphins, 6 types of whales, green turtles and various types of sharks and stingrays.
labuan_bajo_kanawa_island --- Kanawa Island --- The island of Kanawa, only some 15 km from the growing fishermen’s town of Labuan Bajo on Flores, is fringed with a bed of coral reefs teeming with colorful fish all around. Its turquoise water is exceptionally calm and clear. Swimming and snorkeling are most poular family activities here. Dive down the sea from the jetty, and meet schools of fish that cloud the stilts. Hours would pass so quietly as you are busy with all of these beach activities. The island of Kanawa has two bulging hills with fantastic panorama from its hilltop. Covering only 32-hectare or less than 80-acre land, the island is a hideout from the hidden, yet so close to the burgeoning harbor of Labuan Bajo. This could be the only resort class service that fits the budget of backpackers.  The Rp 250,000 per night bungalows on Kanawa may just be the perfect base for you to start exploring the entire, or part of the Komodo National Park. There is nothing you can do on the island, except everything that the water and the land of the national park around it have to offer. The observation of the Komodo dragon, the water buffalos of Rinca, the male and female palm trees, the savanna of Monkey Mountain in Rinca, and the scenic landscape of the national park are equally astonishing. Moreover, diving and snorkeling in crystal clear waters are just a short walk away when you stay on Kanawa instead of Labuan Bajo.
labuan_bajo_cermin_cave --- Batu Cermin Cave --- Batu Cermin, or Mirror Rock, is actually a tunnel or cave in a dark stone hills of Labuan Bajo, West Manggarai, Flores, East Nusa Tenggara. Sunshine comes in through a hole in the tunnel and then bounces on the stone walls that again reflect small lights to other areas inside the cave like a mirror. That’s why this site is called mirror rock. The cave is located east of Labuan Bajo harbor some four kilometers from the town’s center. The cave has forests surrounding it where you can find long-tailed monkeys and wild boar. Travel agencies sell tour packages to Batu Cermin as part of a city tour program from Labuan Bajo. Nearly all interesting sites in Labuan Bajo are located on islands facing this harbor. Most are unoccupied and you can go there for sunbathing, diving or snorkeling. Bidadari Island has a beautiful beach for sunbathing. Its seas are good for snorkeling and diving. Kanawa and Kukusan Kecil Islands are also good for snorkeling and diving. In addition, Serayu island has white sand and beautiful corals.
labuan_bajo_pink_beach --- Pink Beach --- Pink Beach, or Pantai Merah, as it is aptly named, is one of seven pink beaches on the planet, and is just one of the many amazing features of Komodo Island that make it truly a Natural Wonder of Nature. This exceptional beach gets its striking color from microscopic animals called Foraminifera, which produce a red pigment on the coral reefs. For this reason, it is called Red Beach in the local tongue. When the tiny fragments of red coral combine with the white sands, this produces the soft pink color that is visible along the shoreline. Aside from Pink Beach itself, a few small segments along Komodo’s eastern bay also have a pinkish tint. Take a moment to appreciate panoramic views of turquoise seas, green rolling hills, blue skies and fascinatingly pink sands. Aside from the obvious relaxation amidst this picture perfect scenery, Komodo is not short of interesting activities to partake in. Once you have finished taking in the magnificent surroundings, take a dip in the waters and uncover the marine beauty that Pink Beach has to offer. The corals of the Pink Beach’s underwater gardens are in excellent condition, with hundreds of species of both soft and hard corals, and thousands of species of fish. Pink Beach is a terrific choice for snorkelers and beginner divers as even the shallow waters are home to an abundance of species to keep you more than entertained.
