lombok_gili_trawangan --- Gili Trawangan --- White sandy beaches. Tropical coral reefs. Warm inviting waters. All this awaits you on the Gili Trawangan and the Gili islands in Lombok.  And with no cars, no motorbikes and no distractions other than beautiful tropical island scenery, the Gili islands off the northwest coast of Lombok are truly an ideal destination for a tropical getaway. Offering spectacular reefs and ominous dive sites like Shark reef, the Gili Trawangan and the Gili islands in Lombok are the perfect escape for anyone wanting to get away to beautiful, natural and relaxing surrounds. This is why these islands have become a popular destination for Western tourists looking for a remote island experience. For divers and snorkelers, there are few places better than the Gili’s where you can get up close to all kinds of marine life including a green turtle (Chelonia mydas) in all its glory. Swim up and watch this graceful creature glide through the ocean. You should be able to spot these turtles at depths of 10-20 meter below sea level. The Gilis consist of three islands: Gili Trawangan, Gili Meno, and Gili Air. In local Sasak language, "Gili" means "island". In the Indonesian language, plural is denoted by repeating a noun. So "Gili Gili" literally means "islands”.
lombok_segara_anak --- Danau (Lake) Segara Anak --- Danau Segara Anak is a volcanic lake formed in the caldera of Mount Rinjani on over 2,000 meters above sea level. The lake spans across an area of 11 square kilometers, and reaches depths up to 230 meters. Danau Segara Anak is located on the west side of Mount Rinjani in the village of Lawang Sembalun in Lombok, East Indonesia. The mystifyingly blue colour of the lake gives Segara Anak its name: Small Ocean. The trek from the Senaru Village, and through the crater to Danau Segara Anak takes two days and a night. It begins with a hike through a lush, tropical rainforest, and up the mountain to the rim of the crater. The trek to the Senaru rim is a challenging climb up steep terrain and high cliffs, but the exhaustion is well rewarded by the breathtaking panoramic view of the sun setting over Mount Rinjani, Bali and the Gili Isles on the horizon, and the dazzling blue waters of Segara Anak glistening hundreds of meters below. The top of the crater is a popular camp site for both foreign and domestic tourists on this journey to spend the night. It is advisable to set a morning alarm so as not to miss the magnificence of dawn from atop Rinjani.From the crater’s rim, it is a sharp descent of about 600 meters to Danau Segara Anak. Part of Segara Anak flows down a steep ravine forming one large waterfall and several smaller ones. There are also four natural hot springs in the lake which are said to hold magical healing powers, and many make the climb solely for medicinal purposes.
lombok_senggigi_beach --- Senggigi Beach --- A perfect place to relax, Senggigi boasts a series of white sandy beaches and safe swimming areas. The point at central Senggigi has good waves for surfers. This place has a colourful reef which provides shelter to a variety of marine life and exquisitely shapped coral and makes it a perfect place to snorkel. In the dry season, there is an interesting variety of boats moored in the bay. The town of Senggigi spreads out along nearly 10 km of coastal road. This road continues north to Bangsal, the port for the Gili Islands. Swimming off the beach is safe. You can also do some canoeing here in Senggigi. Visit Pura Batu Bolong on a rocky point south of Senggigi. There's good snorkeling off the point and in the sheltered bay around the headland.
lombok_sasak_wedding --- “Kidnapping The Bride”: A Sasak Wedding --- Sasak is the name given to the people that originate from Lombok that is currently inhabiting 85% of Lombok’s population. They are related to the Balinese in language and ancestry, although the Sasak are predominantly Muslim while the Balinese are Hindu. Like most cultures around Indonesia, the Sasak’s have their own traditions. For some people, the cultures may be considered quite unusual but are still very much in practice today. The “Kidnapping of the Bride” was brought on during the era of the local dynasty. It begins when a man decides he has found himself the woman he wants to spend the rest of his life with. These days, the couple are no strangers, as it is common that the couple has been dating for quite some time before the proposition of marriage is in place. However, it is the man that ultimately decides the fate of the two and perhaps unfortunate for the female’s family. But in local Sasak tradition, once the steps have been taken, there is no turning back.
lombok_elephant_park --- Lombok Elephant Park --- Famous for its pristine beach lines and exotic islets, Lombok Island is undoubtedly the most famous tourist destination in the West Nusa Tenggara province of Indonesia. Its luxuriant nature cradles many scenic panorama that you’ll never forget. In the spirit of celebrating the integrated relations between man-animal-nature, today the newly established Lombok Elephant Park has become the playground for animal lovers. As the name suggests, the park emphasizes on delivering experiences to anyone to enjoy around elephants, as well as being an animal sanctuary and conservation site.  Several programs are carried out daily to spur curiosity about these gentle giants. “Elephant Meet and Greet” program gives you a chance every day to get up close and personal with these mighty mammals and amicably interact with them. Four elephants have been brought in from the Way Kambas reserve in Lampung, at the southern tip of Sumatra. You can also follow their daily routine being fed and bathed, or you can watch an educational show to learn about their natural habits. Did you know that elephants also use their feet to listen and feel, aside from through their large ears? They pick up subsonic rumblings made by other elephants and feel the vibrations on the ground. The park also offers you a Safari Ride (with additional cost) where you can have a 15-minute stroll with the largest land animals in the world. Tell your children not to worry about falling off, because elephants are the only mammals that can’t jump. The Lombok Elephant Park has nurtured other fascinating animals of the tropics. There are about 10 more species showing off their characters other than the trunked ones. You will get a chance to take great pictures with some of the loveliest birds with their colorful feathers. Find Bagong the Black Palm Cockatoo, Yacob the Cockatoo, Lauren the Eclectus Parrot and many more of their feathered friends. The siamang monkey is probably the one who will make your head turn, as he dangles from tree to tree while making loud calls or screeches.