makassar_bantimurung --- Bantimurung Bulusaraung National Park --- Located in the Maros regency in the province of South Sulawesi, the Bantimurung Bulusaraung National Park is a mere 50 km from Makassar or 20 km from the Sultan Hasanuddin international airport. The Bantimurung National Park has a total area of approximately 43,750 hectares and is divided into three major types of ecosystems, namely the karst ecosystems, a lowland forest ecosystem, and a lower montane forest ecosystem. The valleys of limestone hills and steep karts walls with tropical vegetation have made Bantimurung an ideal habitat for various rare and endemic species of butterflies, birds and insects. Although there are not as many butterflies today as there were during Wallace’s expedition, visitors can still observe the wide variety of butterflies within the Butterfly Conservation Captivity managed by the Center for Butterfly Breeding. Within the national park, visitors can also find a butterfly museum which houses thousands of unique and rare butterflies that have and still inhabit the area. By the butterfly center, the fascinating Bantimurung waterfall draws visitors with its powerful rush of water and refreshing atmosphere. This is a favorite holiday destinaton especially on weekends. The word Bantimurung itself is derived from two Bugis words; Benti meaning water and Merrung meaning roaring. Therefore meaning roaring waters. Others also suggest that the name Bantimurung comes from the words Banting Murung or smashing one’s gloom, meaning that here visitors can release their sadness or depressing thoughts through refreshing nature. With a height of 15 meters and a 20 meters width, the Bantimurung waterfall can only be described as one of nature’s finest artwork, where waters rush down through its multi levels rocky streams, decorated by colorful surroundings. The hills of Bantimurung-Bulusaurung National Park also hold wonders in some of its astonishing caves. Inside these caves, visitors can marvel through their interiors filled with fascinating stalactites and stalagmites. The dreamlike crystal clear stalactites and stalagmites earned the cave its popular name, the dream cave or Goa Mimpi. Among these caves are found prehistoric “hand stencils”, similar to the rock art of Australia.
makassar_rotterdam --- Fort Rotterdam --- Standing majestically at the western coast of Makassar, South Sulawesi. Fort Rotterdam is recognized as the city’s most iconic landmark. With historical traces dating back to the Kingdom of Gowa from the 16th century to colonization by the Dutch, this Fort has silently witnessed many episodes in Makassar’s history, playing a most essential role in its development. Its magnificence and authenticity has always captivated those who set eyes on it. Originally called Benteng or Fort Jumpandang or Ujung Pandang, the huge complex was first built in 1545 in the era of Imanrigau Daeng Bonto Karaeng Lakiung or Karaeng Tunipalangga Ulaweng, the tenth King of Gowa. Initially, the fort was made from a mixture of Stone and burnt clay, and took the shape of a typical square Portuguese architectural style. The fort was also expanded and took on a new shape resembling a sea turtle, thus the fort gained a new name, Benteng Pannyua (Penyu) or Fort Sea turtle. The shape is not only unique, but also contains deep meaning. For just as a sea turtle lives both on land and at sea, the glory of the Gowa Kingdom also stretched on land as well as over the seas.
makassar_pakarena --- Pakarena Dance --- From the enchanting waters overlooking the capital city of Makassar up to the highland of Toraja, South Sulawesi is a land blessed with fascinating splendors. While nature provides the magnificent settings, the indigenous people present an equally fascinating culture.  One of the well preserved cultural traditions of South Sulawesi takes shape in the Pakarena Dance. Originated from the ancient Sultanate of Gowa in today’s Gowa regency, Pakarena is believed to be derived from the word “karena” which means “to Play” in the local language. The dance seems to have been spread widely throughout the area, thus many variations are found based on location. Among these are the Pakarena Gantarang, Pakarena Balla Bulo, and Pakarena Bontobangung. The dance also varies according to the type of performance. Among them are the Pakarena Royong which is strictly performed during ritual ceremonies, and the Pakarena Bone Balla which can be performed at anytime. Pakarena expresses the elegance of the Makassar ethnic women symbolizing their politeness, loyalty, obedience and respect towards their spouses. The dance consists of 12 parts that have their own distinct meanings although they are difficult to differentiate by untrained eyes, since patterns appear to be similar. Both the seated position which commences and ends the performance, as well as the clock wise movement represent the cycle of human life. While the ascending and descending movements symbolize the wheel of life; sometimes we are at the top, while at other times we are down. In all choreographies, the dancers hold and play the distinct traditional fan. The dance has a unique rule: dancers must not open their eyes too wide and their feet must not be lifted too high.
makassar_taka_bonerate --- Taka Bonerate National Park --- Stretching south of the main island of Sulawesi into the Flores Sea, the Taka Bonerate National Park in the Selayar Regency is a dominantly rich marine park, but it is also habitat to a number of bird species from land birds to coastal and sea birds that frolic on the many sand dunes. The Island of Selayar is the gateway to this extensive 530,765 hectares national park, of which 220,000 hectares form an expanse of atolls and lagoons. Taka Bonerate is the third largest atoll region in the world after Kwajalein in the Marshall Islands and Suvadiva in the Maldives. Taka Bonerate, together with Wakatobi , Ambon , Banda and Raja Ampat , together with Bunaken as well as the Derawan islands in Kalimantan, are at the heart of the Coral Triangle which stretches from the Solomon Islands in the east, to the Philippines in the north, to Bali , Lombok , Komodo , Flores and the Savu Sea in the south, these latter form the base of the huge Coral Triangle. Besides atolls, this national park comprises 21 islands. The island of Tinabo, which is at the heart of Taka Bonerate is also headquarters of the management of this marine park. Measuring 1.5 km by 400 meters, Tinabo is far away from the hustle and bustle of city life, where it feels like you are on your own private island in the middle of nowhere. The crystal clear waters offer a wide range of reefs, from barrier reefs to fringing reefs and atolls to steep drop-offs, as well as slopes and flat seabeds, all offering opportunities for beginners to professional divers to test their skill and be amazed by the wonderful beauty of this underwater sea life. Besides the 242 species of corals, Taka Bonerate boasts 526 species of colorful and strange reef fish as well as 112 species of macro algae. Divers will be able to get close and swim with dolphins, turtles, manta rays, sometimes spot sharks, or sperm whales, and be enthralled by the giant gorgonian fans, black corals, scorpion fish, nudibranch, tuna, trevallies, napoleon wrasse and more that make up this unbelievable,pristine underwater paradise. You will also find hawksbill turtles (Eretmochelysimbricata), Pacific Ridley turtles ( Lepidochelysolivicea), and green turtles (cheloniamydas). Indeed, Taka Bonerate is said to have one of the world's highest marine diversity.
makassar_pinisi --- The Bugis Pinisi Schooner --- When sailing in the Indonesian seas one invariably meets one of these majestic traditional schooners at full sail. These are the Bugis pinisi, - or sometimes written phinisi - that have for centuries plied these waters journeying as far away as Malacca, Burma, Vietnam and Australia. Today one can see these large traditional boats at anchor along the Sunda Kelapa harbor in Jakarta and at the Ujung wharf of Surabaya unloading timber from Kalimantan, or at the Paotere harbor in Makassar, South Sulawesi, or even at the small port of Labuan Bajo on Flores. The Bugis together with the Mandar, both of South Sulawesi, are master shipbuilders and superb mariners. These pinisi boats have carried the Bugis far across the archipelago and many have further settled on Java, Kalimantan, Sumatra, Papua, and the Nusatenggara islands. The Bugis were not only respected as master seafarers but were also greatly feared as pirates. In the 18th century when the Dutch colonized their homeland, many aristocrats sailed to Malaya (present day Malaysia) and Kalimantan. The Sultans of Kutai in East Kalimantan and of Johor and Selangor in Malaysia are of Bugis descent. The original Bugis heartland is in Luwu on the Bay of Bone, where in the 13th.and 14th. century thrived a large Bugis kingdom. Here the Bugis great literary work “I La Galigo” was composed that relates the story of the origins of the Bugis in more than 6,000 pages.
makassar_ballalompoa --- The Ballalompoa Museum --- A new attraction has recently been added to Makassar. Since the beginning of March, an impressive “Changing of the Guard” ceremony takes place at the Ballalompoa Museum, the former Palace of the Sultan of Gowa. Wearing resplendent bright red costumes, “soldiers” involved in the “Changing of the Guard” at the former Gowa Palace will perform their drill for the public to watch every morning at 09.00 am, promised the Bupati (Regent) of the district of Gowa. Built in 1936, the Palace of the Sultan of Gowa,  formerly also known as the Sungguminasa Palace, is a large wooden structure built on stilts and has an imposing roofed staircase that leads to the reception room. It has five wooden panels in the gable of the roof, which denotes royalty and may be used only by the Sultan. The Ballalompoa Museum today houses the resplendent treasure and regalia of the former Sultan of Gowa, among which the Gowa gold crown, bracelets with precious stones, royal swords, keris and gold jewelry.